---
course_id: res-10-s95-physics-of-covid-19-transmission-fall-2020
is_media_gallery: true
layout: course_section
menu:
  leftnav:
    identifier: 7be79e0b9640e9afdc7196833289c279
    name: Lecture Videos
    weight: 10
title: Lecture Videos
type: course
uid: 7be79e0b9640e9afdc7196833289c279

---
{{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/introduction-video-course-overview" section="Lecture Videos" title="Introduction Video: Course Overview" description="Please consider taking the full course (which includes problems) for free on edX. Also check out Prof. Bazants webpage on COVID-19 Indoor Safety Guideline. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/2Y__Z_PgAxQ/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens-chapter-1-overview" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-0: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Chapter 1 Overview" description="Chapter 1: Transfer of respiratory pathogens. The fate of pathogen-laden respiratory droplets in exhaled breaths. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/K10Q4EUFE6k/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-1-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014droplet-formation" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-1: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Droplet Formation" description="Respiratory droplets are formed in the respiratory tract. Different phenomena cause droplets of varying size distributions to be formed in the upper and lower respiratory tract. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/6sXqF5pz0bs/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-2-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014airborne-droplets" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-2: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Airborne Droplets" description="Respiratory pathogens are transmitted via respiratory droplets. The Wells curve compares the settling and evaporation of droplets of different sizes. Respiratory activity affects the droplet-size distribution. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/ysEeFyNjnkQ/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-3-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014wells-curve-derivation-aside" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-3: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Wells Curve Derivation (ASIDE)" description="Derivation of the Wells theory. Settling time is given by Stokes drag formula and is inversely proportional to the radius of droplet squared, while evaporation time is limited by diffusion of water vapor and is proportional to the radius squared. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/9hdNPVEQLFE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-4-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014equilibrium-size-of-respiratory-aerosols" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-4: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Equilibrium Size of Respiratory Aerosols" description="Equilibrium droplet size varies with relative humidity. Infectious respiratory droplets contain proteins, sugars, salts, and virions. Mucus has a greater volume fraction of solutes than saliva. Droplets are hygroscopic and grow at high relative humidities. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/7io-8_I6ZXA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-5-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014bacteria" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-5: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Bacteria" description="Streptococcus bacteria are only found in larger drops which enable fomite and short-range airborne transmission. Tuberculosis bacteria are found in smaller droplets which enable long-range airborne transmission. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/k_VJo1Vrl6E/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-6-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014viruses" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-6: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Viruses" description="Measles and coronaviruses have small virions which can occur in small respiratory droplets, leading to airborne transmission. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/peZLMv1Qk8A/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-7-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014escape-time-of-virions" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-7: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Escape Time of Virions" description="Virions cannot swim and must diffuse out of a respiratory droplet. The average escape time is proportional to the radius of the droplet squared and inversely proportional to the diffusivity, which is inversely proportional to the viscosity of the liquid. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/qjUR8WJWRgQ/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-8-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014release-of-viral-load-from-a-drop-aside" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-8: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Release of Viral Load from a Drop (ASIDE)" description="PDE for the spatial distribution of the mean first passage time for a random walker inside a sphere to reach the surface. Spatial averaging gives the average escape time, assuming an initially uniform distribution of random walkers. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/t4P_zSJbods/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-9-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014drop-size2013dependent-infectivity-aside" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-9: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Drop Size–Dependent Infectivity (ASIDE)" description="Infectivity of a respiratory drop may depend on its size due to differences in the escape time. In a larger drop, a fewer fraction of virions are able to escape in the same amount of time. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/nbJRDPcJTWk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-10-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014aerosolized-pathogen-deactivation" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-10: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Aerosolized Pathogen Deactivation" description="Relative humidity affects the deactivation of bacteria and virus differently. Virions in droplets remain viable for longer at both low and high relative humidities due to less exposure to deactivating salts. Ref: Humidity-Dependent Decay of Viruses, but Not Bacteria, in Aerosols and Droplets Follows Disinfection Kinetics Kaisen Lin and Linsey C. Marr Environmental Science & Technology 2020 54 (2), 1024-1032 DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.9b04959 Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/71dUZmywpOM/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-11-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014viral-deactivation-in-aerosols-aside" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-11: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Viral Deactivation in Aerosols (ASIDE)" description="A theory for the Lin-Marr viral deactivation kinetics based on diffusion-limited evaporation. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/NJST-IUGBUA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-12-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens-modes-of-transmission" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-12: Transfer of Respiratory Pathogens—Modes of Transmission" description="Fomite/contact, larger ballistic drops, short- and long-range aerosol are the main modes of transmission for respiratory diseases like COVID-19. Long-range airborne transmission dominates when face coverings are worn. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/lFDL2Qif2vE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-1-13-transfer-of-respiratory-pathogens2014indoor-airborne-spreading-of-covid-19" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 1-13: Transfer of Respiratory pathogens—Indoor Airborne Spreading of COVID-19" description="Epidemiological and physical evidence of long-range airborne transmission of COVID-19, including a survey of well-known superspreading events early on in the COVID-19 pandemic where spreading could not be explained without airborne transmission. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/ZqEKYbzgz4s/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-2-0-airborne-disease-transmission-in-a-well-mixed-room2014chapter-2-overview" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 2-0: Airborne Disease Transmission in a Well-Mixed Room—Chapter 2 Overview" description="Chapter 2: Airborne disease transmission in a well-mixed room. Airborne transmission is important for COVID-19 transmission; analysis of concentration of virions in the air when the air in the room is well mixed, considering various effects. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/NXquyoAX1_M/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-2-1-airborne-disease-transmission-in-a-well-mixed-room2014respiration-and-ventilation" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 2-1: Airborne Disease Transmission in a Well-Mixed Room—Respiration and Ventilation" description="Mass balance of virions in a well-mixed room as an ODE. Production by infectors, removal by ventilation, and the volume of the room control the dynamics of concentration, which could take the form of an exponential decay. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/nOW0xBef6rg/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-2-2-airborne-disease-transmission-in-a-well-mixed-room2014airborne-transmission-rate" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 2-2: Airborne Disease Transmission in a Well-Mixed Room—Airborne Transmission Rate" description="Formula for the transmission rate, defined as the number of infection quanta transmitted per unit time. Formula for the steady-state transmission rate in a well-mixed room. The infectivity of a SARS-CoV-2 virion is estimated to be possibly more than 10%. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/-Yt7LQ4k1IU/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-2-3-airborne-disease-transmission-in-a-well-mixed-room-air-filtration-versus-masks" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 2-3: Airborne Disease Transmission in a Well-Mixed Room—Air Filtration Versus Masks" description="Air filtration and mask filtration reduce COVID-19 transmission in different ways. Air filters, no matter how effective, only increase uniform removal of virions from the indoor air. Even basic masks block droplets both at the source and at the target. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/w6pWbzkTap4/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-2-4-airborne-disease-transmission-in-a-well-mixed-room2014sedimentation-and-deactivation" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 2-4: Airborne Disease Transmission in a Well-Mixed Room—Sedimentation and Deactivation" description="Droplet settling and virion deactivation also slowly remove virions from the indoor air. The rates affect the relaxation of the indoor virion concentration. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Gxefx9BDCq0/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-2-5-airborne-disease-transmission-in-a-well-mixed-room2014drop-size-distributions" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 2-5: Airborne Disease Transmission in a Well-Mixed Room—Drop-Size Distributions" description="Droplet size controls the transmission rate of COVID-19. Different respiratory activities produce different droplet-size distributions. Different size droplets have different infectivities, settle at different rates, and respond differently to filtration. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/_sNtz_Z5MA4/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-3-0-epidemiological-models2014chapter-3-overview" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 3-0: Epidemiological Models—Chapter 3 Overview" description="Chapter 3: Epidemiological models. Dynamics of disease spreading among compartments in a population: susceptible, infected, exposed, recovered. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Gcb0zp82BtA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-3-1-epidemiological-models2014disease-spreading-in-a-population" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 3-1: Epidemiological Models—Disease Spreading in a Population" description="The susceptible-infected-removed (SIR) epidemiological model of disease spreading in a population, which is a system of coupled nonlinear ODEs. An epidemic will occur when the initial reproductive number is greater than unity. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/eAHDiT40fkU/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-3-2-epidemiological-models2014indoor-disease-spreading" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 3-2: Epidemiological Models—Indoor Disease Spreading" description="The susceptible-exposed-infected (SEI) epidemiological model of disease spreading in a population, which is a system of coupled nonlinear ODEs. The slow incubation limit is equivalent to a linear response. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/j--zfB6AIpo/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-3-3-epidemiological-models2014incubation-enhanced-spreading" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 3-3: Epidemiological Models—Incubation-Enhanced Spreading" description="The susceptible-infected (SI) epidemiological model of disease spreading in a population in the fast incubation limit, which is a system of coupled nonlinear ODEs. Both slow- and fast-incubation have the same small transmission limit. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/F0sz463hx3U/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-0-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014chapter-4-overview" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-0: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Chapter 4 Overview" description="Chapter 4: Safety guideline for COVID-19. Existing guidelines limit one parameter at a time, which may be too conservative in some cases and not safe enough in others. All parameters must be related in a general guideline. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Jd1BTtUqLBA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-1-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014cumulative-exposure-time" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-1: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Cumulative Exposure Time" description="Safety guideline for COVID-19 based on the indoor reproductive number, which is proportional to the cumulative exposure time times the average transmission rate. Limits on occupancy, time, or social distance neglect interaction between the number and time. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/vQYQR8iNU-o/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-2-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014transmission-rate" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-2: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Transmission Rate" description="The expected number of transmissions is greater than or equal to the risk of at least one transmission. As the tolerance approaches zero, the risk of a transmission is asymptotic to the expected number of transmissions. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/fdbeCmYRVzA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-3-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014transient-transmission-rate" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-3: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Transient Transmission Rate" description="As an infector enters a room, the transient transmission rate increases over time like an exponential decay, eventually approaching a steady state. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/P9hTSTZAxqs/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-4-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014steady-transmission-rate" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-4: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Steady Transmission Rate" description="The timescale associated with the buildup to the steady-state transmission rate is the inverse of the relaxation time. A transient correction factor the the safety guideline shows that when the time goes to zero, the risk also goes to zero. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/kmpde1ZIqKA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-5-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014transient-aerosol-buildup" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-5: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Transient Aerosol Buildup" description="Long after an infector enters a room, the transmission rate reaches a steady-state value, which may be described by a simple formula. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/_jz3HWBmruo/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-6-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014safety-guideline-as-a-simple-formula" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-6: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Safety Guideline as a Simple Formula" description="Safety guideline for COVID-19 as a simple formula based on the steady transmission rate. The cumulative exposure time is bounded above by a value determined based on risk tolerance and indoor conditions. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/hAUFAN8Ceac/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-7-safety-guideline-for-covid-19-analysis-of-superspreading-events" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-7: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Analysis of Superspreading Events" description="Parameterization of infection quanta per volume of inhaled breath based on analyses of superspreading incidents, which turns out to depend on respiratory activity. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/wfLISAzXYns/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-8-safety-guideline-for-covid-19-case-studies" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-8: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Case Studies" description="Safety guideline applied to two different case studies: a classroom and a nursing home. Bounds on the cumulative exposure time are very different due to different indoor conditions, which simple occupancy and time bounds fail to capture. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/o75BCkQL5Co/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-9-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014role-of-prevalence-of-infection" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-9: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Role of Prevalence of Infection" description="The safety guideline can be modified to account for the prevalence of infection in a certain population by introducing a random variable for the number of infected people in a room. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/0VppWRGt0uk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-10-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014risk-scenarios" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-10: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Risk Scenarios" description="The safety guideline has been previously used to limit spreading if an infected person enters a room. Factors related to prevalence of infection can be introduced to limit transmission and personal risk. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/ePKxMVfPmws/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-11-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014eopening-schools-or-businesses" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-11: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Reopening Schools or Businesses" description="Applying the safety guideline to schools and businesses. At different stages of the pandemic, restrictions can be relaxed (with masks) as the prevalence of infection changes and safety interventions are made. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/lo-5afXPHx0/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-4-12-safety-guideline-for-covid-192014vaccination-and-immunity" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 4-12: Safety Guideline for COVID-19—Vaccination and Immunity" description="In addition prevalence of infection, immunity from vaccines and prior exposure can impact the safety guideline. The probability of immunity changes the expected number of susceptible people in a room. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Oh8aK-0N-9M/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-0-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014chapter-5-overview" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-0: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Chapter 5 Overview" description="Chapter 5: Beyond the well-mixed room. Indoor fluid mechanics beyond the well-mixed assumption. Effects of respiratory activities, thermal effects, ventilation, and more. Analysis of short-range transmission of a respiratory disease. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Nt44I1OYkFw/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-1-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014forced-convection" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-1: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Forced Convection" description="The Reynolds number describes the flow regime. Typical indoor activities such as breathing, motion as well as natural and forced ventilation can easily lead to the turbulent mixing of indoor air, all supporting the assumption of the well-mixed room. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Sp6rcXifyAo/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-2-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014natural-convection" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-2: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Natural Convection" description="Buoyancy driven flow also contributes to the mixing of the indoor air, controlled by the Rayleigh number. The higher human body temperature, space heating, and HVAC all lead to thermal effects and enhance natural convection. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/X1or8Ish5OU/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-3-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014ventilation" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-3: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Ventilation" description="Mixing ventilation creates unstable thermal gradients, leading to more mixing, while displacement ventilation leads to stratification of the ambient air. Ref: Bhagat, R., Davies Wykes, M., Dalziel, S., & Linden, P. (2020). Effects of ventilation on the indoor spread of COVID-19. Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 903, F1. doi:10.1017/jfm.2020.720 Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/nyuKHTzr6xA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-4-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014aerosol-transport" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-4: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Aerosol Transport" description="The Péclet number describes the amount of forced convection. Turbulent indoor air flow lead to eddy diffusion. Droplet settling occurs in addition to the turbulent mixing. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/i_F7ndSmVGE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-5-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014respiratory-puffs-and-jets" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-5: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Respiratory Puffs and Jets" description="Analysis of the movement of a turbulent respiratory jet, a single respiratory puff, and a puff train. Ref: Speech can produce jet-like transport relevant to asymptomatic spreading of virus Manouk Abkarian, Simon Mendez, Nan Xue, Fan Yang, Howard A. Stone Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Oct 2020, 117 (41) 25237-25245; DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2012156117 Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/QbueCxKUUTo/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-6-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014turbulent-jets-aside" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-6: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Turbulent Jets (ASIDE)" description="Derivation of the flow profile in a turbulent jet as well as the resulting concentration profile assuming radial mixing. The virion concentration decays as the inverse of the axial distance from the source. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/yfxD7JKUxFQ/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-7-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014short-range-transmission" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-7: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Short-Range Transmission" description="Calculation of the excess risk due to short-range transmission relative to long-term airborne transmission as a function of the distance of separation. The crossover distance is typically much greater than six feet. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/MRdNlTEoIFE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-8-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014airborne-transmission-indoors" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-8: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Airborne Transmission Indoors" description="Summary of comparison of indoor airborne transmission risks. Long-range airborne transmission dominates when masks are worn, while short-range transmission may become important when masks are not worn. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/IJyboHTpBws/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-5-9-beyond-the-well-mixed-room2014social-distancing" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 5-9: Beyond the Well-Mixed Room—Social Distancing" description="The comparison of short- and long-range transmission risks depend on many factors such as mask wearing, social distance, and human behaviors, but an intuitive analogy is second-hand smoke in an indoor space. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/-nAt3BJQ2xY/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/lecture-videos/video-6-0-course-conclusion" section="Lecture Videos" title="Video 6-0: Course Conclusion" description="We have discussed the physical principles that quantitatively affect the risks of long- and short-term airborne transmission of COVID-19. There are many ways to limit transmission, but it is important to know that these variables are linked. Speaker: Professor Martin Z. Bazant" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/jq7d4fE39aM/default.jpg" >}}